This is Business Breakdowns.
Business Breakdowns is a series of
conversations with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business.
For each business, we explore its
history, its business model, its
competitive advantages, and what makes
it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn from, and we are here to bring
them to you.
To find more episodes of Breakdowns,
check out joincolossus.com.
>> All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. Hosts, podcast guests, their
employers, or affiliates may maintain
positions in the securities discussed in
this podcast. This podcast is for
informational purposes only and should
not be relied upon as a basis for
investment decisions.
>> This is Matt Russell, and we've got a
short special episode today on alpha in
podcasts.
Now, what sparked this episode? Well,
I'm glad that you asked. A few weeks
ago, a Wall Street Journal article
highlighted the behemoth Millennium had
hired portfolio manager Steve Sherwood
from Balyasny with a potential $100
million payout.
Who said you need to be an AI engineer
to cash in, right?
The Journal noted that Sherwood is known
for mining overlooked sources of
research, such as podcast transcripts.
The article also noted his team
generated $150 million
in investment profits for Balyasny in
2023 and $250 million in 2024. And as I
like to say, hey, that'll pay for lunch.
Now, I'm not here to tell you that there
is massive alpha waiting for you on this
podcast or on any podcast. If I had to
guess, this has more to do with industry
commentary coming from niche podcasts. I
can remember listening to an old oil
field services podcast way back when,
and it is amazing what you get from
people on the ground and what they see
and how often that can differ from
broader sentiment. But, this is an
opportunity to explore the data.
Every Business Breakdowns episode has a
disclaimer that this is not investment
advice, and that remains true. It will
always remain true.
But, if you enjoy markets, you can't
help but tracking how things perform.
Since launching Business Breakdowns in
2021, we've covered over 200 companies.
Naturally, we get tagged as pumpers when
the market is rising. And we get tagged
as a curse when the market is falling.
But, those who took a math class will
appreciate neither of those is really
true. There are some winners.
There are some losers.
Let's start out with some of the
aggregate data.
Since launching Breakdowns, the S&P is
up 45%.
A rolling Business Breakdowns portfolio
is up 30%.
Not much alpha there.
Your best shot at outperforming would
have been a basket of Breakdowns covered
by my esteemed colleague and host Zack
Foss.
I am glad that I waited to record this
episode today on July 1st because he was
outperforming the market as of
yesterday, but has about 130 basis point
drag as of today. So, timing is
everything.
Now, I know you might be thinking to
yourself, "Well, maybe the impact is
felt on a shorter time horizon."
Obviously, a podcast released 3 years
ago,
mhm, it's a little bit different than
what is happening today. We want these
episodes to be evergreen, but eh, let's
look at the numbers.
Well, not much to see there. On average,
the companies featured on Breakdowns lag
the market by about 30 basis points over
7-day period. They outperform by 7 basis
points, if you consider that
outperformance on a 30-day period and
over 1 year, they underperform by just
over 5%. So, the trend line is gradual
on an aggregate basis. And again, this
is a simple average of the names put
together. We're doing this rolling, so
it gives you some sense.
But, let's look at some of the
individual names of note.
We often get asked, "What's your
favorite episode?" or
"What's been the best performing name
from Breakdowns?"
Well, the best relative performer from
Business Breakdowns was AppLovin.
Now, AppLovin has outperformed by nearly
540%
since we featured CEO and co-founder
Adam Foroughi in April of 2022.
But, what's most interesting is that
AppLovin actually underperformed the
market by nearly 60% in the 1 year
following the episode. So, not only did
it recover, but it recovered and then
some.
And we generally try to limit having
management teams on as guests. Maybe we
should revisit that one.
But, for those of you who want to use
that data as ammo, we serve everyone
here. If CEO's going on podcasts is a
red flag for you, reference the 1-year
data.
If CEO's going on podcasts is how you
learn about their mentality, reference
the long-term performance. It's a
win-win.
Coming in at number two on the all-time
performer list is GE, General Electric.
We also covered this name in 2022. And
whether you measure the GE RemainCo
shares outperforming by over 300% or
include the spin-offs,
those haven't been too shabby, either.
If you are planning to write a Twitter
thread or a LinkedIn post on Warren
Buffett or Brad Jacobs, take a breath,
stop yourself. Larry Kolb is waiting for
you. He is the Brooklyn hipster version
of great manager that just is under
discussed out there and will probably be
more in vogue sometime in the future.
Here's your opportunity. That's your
alpha.
Now,
again, we just highlighted two names
from 2022 that have been massive out
performers. You might be saying, "Matt,
time is going to help with these big
compounders. What about some annualized
performance numbers?"
We have some data here.
Look no further than Siemens Energy, an
episode recorded
last August, 2024. Less than a year
later, the stock has outperformed the
market by 250%. Not too shabby. We also
have Axon from July of 2024. I think I
mentioned this on the Axon episode that
I let that stock chart scare me away 5
years prior. Shame on me. Stock has
outperformed by another 140% in less
than a year.
And then from earlier this year, we have
Nintendo, which has outperformed by 53%
since January. And if software startups
can reference annualized monthly
recurring revenue, you have my blessing
to reference annualized year-to-date
returns. Completely fair game on my
side. On the other side of the coin, we
have plenty of underperformers.
Several that are essentially zeros
and we won't go through all of those
names, but you can find them from the
2022-2023 era.
It is notable that
of the 20 worst performing names from
breakdowns,
Zack Fuss has only hosted one of those
episodes. That episode was UPS
and the guest was yours truly.
Had to share that data point. I tried
sorting through the data in a variety of
different ways to figure out some
interesting data point. If you look at
all of the names that outperformed by
over 40% in the year prior to the
recording. So, a lot of momentum behind
these names.
Only nine out of 25 have outperformed
since. Somewhat of an interesting data
point. And on the opposite side, we've
had 35 names that have underperformed by
over 20% in the year prior to recording.
Only nine of those have reversed course
and outperformed the market since.
So, interesting from both angles. You
definitely could argue fading the
massive out performers going into
recordings.
But, it's not so much the same case in
terms of buying those names that have
underperformed going into the
recordings.
The lesson is always the same here. Do
your own research. I think there are
things to learn. There's a way to
understand these businesses. If I were
to describe the idea behind the podcast,
it is you're just starting to research a
name, rather than look at the 10K or
annual report, listen to an interesting
conversation about this company, likely
from an investment manager that owns the
company, understand what this business
is all about, and do it in a
time-efficient and entertaining way.
That said, there are things you can take
away from this. We have a fine friend of
the show who will I will refer to as CP,
and he unearthed Casey's from the show
along with some other names, and he
noted the pattern matching that he does
from these key names. And if there's one
way that it showed up for me in my
personal investing process, it is very
much the pattern matching.
One of my favorite themes is finding
businesses that have mission-critical
products that they're selling. They have
dominated those markets. They have a
path towards organic growth and towards
acquisitive growth. And in 2021, a
company was featured on another podcast.
I noticed a lot of the themes around
this business were similar to the later
stage compounders that we know of today.
This company, I would say, was still in
its early innings. Uh not so much as a
business itself, but as a public
company.
And it has done incredibly well
for me since. So, there are different
ways to take the lessons that you learn
from Business Breakdowns. We hope that's
how you apply it. We hope that's how you
use it as an educational resource. If
you want some of the additional data,
I'm happy to share tidbits here and
there with you. Just give us a shout.
We will be back in the coming weeks with
episodes. We have a lineup of recordings
happening this week and next week. So,
stay tuned for those. And as always,
thank you for listening.
>> To find more episodes of Breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Moderna,
or to sign up for our weekly summary,
check out joincolossus.com.
That's j o i n c o l o s s u s dot com.